 Methodology v2 — cost arithmetic, quoted scores, and staleness gates | Token Perks Skip to content Token Perks AI subscription offers, compared on effective cost per task. Home Offers Providers Guides Verified Sep 6 2026 Home / Methodology v2 Version 2 · dated Sep 7 2026 Methodology We publish point-in-time research snapshots , not live prices. Every figure carries a verification date; every page tells you to re-verify at official terms before paying. Version 2 extends the v0.1 verification rules with the cost-universe data model and a strict policy for quoting third-party benchmark scores. The rules (v0.1, retained) Official sources only. Provider pages and in-product listings. No forum screenshots, no second-hand price tweets. Median-window aggregation. Per-task references use the median over a trailing 7-day example window — stated cadence, stated window, no silent averaging. Dual display. Unit price (what the provider publishes) alongside cost-per-task (what you feel). Uncertainty labels. Every evidence item is marked. We never invent verification dates. Evidence labels Every row in the universe table carries one of three labels: DIRECT Read directly on the provider's own page during this pass. EXCERPT Official copy obtained via a site snapshot or a search-indexed rendering of the official page — the numbers are the provider's, the fetch was indirect. UNCERTAIN Not verified this pass. The row appears with the price field marked “not fetched” — never a figure from memory. UNCERTAIN rows are included in the full-universe table on purpose: gaps are data. Cost arithmetic The leaderboard ranks pay-per-token routes on blended effective cost per million tokens : blended $/M = (3 × input + 1 × output) / 4 The 3:1 input-to-output weighting mirrors a write-heavy agent workload; it is our convention, stated everywhere the number appears, and never attributed to providers. List prices only: cache discounts, batch modes, off-peak windows, and long-context surcharges are recorded in each row's notes and caveats, not averaged in. Estimated $/task multiplies the blend by a task-size preset (12k, 60k, 120k, or 200k tokens — our estimates). Subscription rows without published quotas get no per-task figure at all rather than a guess. Quoted intelligence scores (AA policy) Intelligence values on this site come from the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index v 4.3 , accessed 2026-09-07. Our posture, per AA's published terms: Per-datum citation. Every score travels with its source: “AA Intelligence Index v 4.3 — Source: Artificial Analysis, accessed 2026-09-07,” linked to the exact AA model page or leaderboard row. Footer attribution does not substitute. No reproduction. AA tables and feeds are not reproduced. Scores appear only as single quoted reference values inside cost-side tables. Machine feeds (leaderboard.json, llms.txt, llms-full.txt) contain cost data only — no AA values. Estimates carried, not laundered. Where AA marks a score as an estimate, the asterisk follows it here too. Coverage limits stated. Only AA's Overall index is public per model. Coding, math, and agentic sub-indices are not publicly published, so those tabs do not exist here — absence is documented, not zero-filled. Our score — documented, withheld The Token Perks Value Score (TPVS) is our experimental weighting of intelligence against effective cost: TPVS = I × (C ref / C eff ) α where I is the cited AA score, C eff the blended cost for the selected task size, C ref the median cost of the ranked set (so the formula is ordering-invariant), and α a weighting preset: Performance 0.15, Balanced 0.5, Budget 1.0. No TPVS value is rendered anywhere on the site. A merged intelligence-x-cost ranking is a derivative work over AA's scores; it ships only with AA's written consent. Until then the leaderboard ranks on cost, quotes intelligence as a cited reference, and the frontier chart shows the cost-intelligence staircase — a visualization, not a score. Staleness gates Cost rows re-verify weekly ; active promos daily while live. Score-dependent blocks refuse to render if the intelligence snapshot is older than 35 days — AA indexes move, and an old score presented as current is worse than none; the page then shows a “score paused” banner. Every pass, including passes that find nothing, is recorded in the verification log . Data schema The site renders from two snapshot files, both dated: content/leaderboard/universe.json
 { snapshot: "2026-09-07",
 rows: [ { id, provider, category: a|b|c|d|e,
 plan, listPrice, priceMonthly,
 apiIn, apiOut, // USD per 1M tokens, null when absent
 unit, notes, caveats[],
 sourceUrl, label: DIRECT|EXCERPT|UNCERTAIN,
 offer, modelId } ] }
content/intelligence/2026-09-07.json
 { accessed: "2026-09-07", source: "artificialanalysis.ai",
 indexVersion: "4.3",
 models: { <modelId>: { intelligenceIndex, estimate,
 sourceUrl, aaName, aaVariant } } } Machine contract: /api/leaderboard.json (cost side only), /api/offers.json (tracked offers). Snapshot datasets are published under CC-BY-4.0 with attribution. FAQ How often do you re-verify prices? Full re-verification weekly; active promos are checked daily while live. Every figure carries its verification date, and every page states it is a snapshot, not a live feed. What does 'blended $/M' mean? A single per-million-token figure computed as (3 x input price + 1 x output price) / 4. The 3:1 ratio mirrors a write-heavy workload. It is Token Perks arithmetic, not a provider figure, and it uses list prices — cache discounts, batch discounts, and off-peak windows are documented per row but not baked into the blend. Are the intelligence scores yours? No. Scores come from the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index and are quoted per datum with a link to the exact source row, accessed 2026-09-07. We do not re-measure models, and we do not republish AA tables or feeds. Where AA flags a score as an estimate, we carry the flag. Why is there no overall value ranking on the site? A ranking that multiplies intelligence by cost is a derived work over AA's scores. Until we have written consent from AA to render that derivation, the formula ships in code and is documented here, but the leaderboard ranks on cost alone and quotes intelligence as a cited reference column. What is the trailing-7-day median window? Per-task cost references (like $0.80/task) use the median tokens-per-task over a trailing 7-day example window at an illustrative blended rate — medians, so one outlier session cannot skew the number. Do you republish benchmark leaderboards? No. AA scores appear only as individual quoted values inside our cost tables, each with its own citation and link. Machine feeds contain cost data only. Full AA tables, CSVs, and score feeds are not reproduced anywhere on this site. Cite this page Token Perks. "Methodology v2." Dated Sep 7 2026. https://token-perks.com/methodology/ CC-BY-4.0 with attribution. Includes the snapshot date so readers know how fresh the numbers are. Copy citation As of Sep 6 2026 Research snapshot Sep 6 2026 — re-verify at official terms before paying. Prices, limits, and promo windows change. Confirm the current terms on the provider's official page before paying or planning around them. Methodology version 2; changes are versioned and dated. Home Offers Providers Guides Methodology v2 Verification log How we make money This version contains no affiliate links. Every outbound link goes directly to an official provider page. We may earn a commission from some future links. See how we make money. Machine feeds: llms.txt · offers.json · leaderboard.json · feed.xml · llms-full.txt Independent model benchmarks we respect (external, not affiliated): Artificial Analysis . We link rather than republish their numbers. Research snapshot Sep 6 2026 — re-verify at official terms before paying. Token Perks publishes point-in-time research snapshots, not live checkout data. Never enter credentials on any page here — we will never ask for them. 